## Odd Blog V2

Dan Duff

https://a4-dandaman2.glitch.me/

## NOTE: Professor Roberts Allowed me (Dan Duff) an extension on this assignment until the end of the day Sunday (9/29), without late penalty. If there are any questions about this, ask him. 

My application for Assignment 4 is a continuation of my Assignment 3 "Odd Blog" (aptly-named Odd Blog v2) for a wingding message board. 

Similar to my goal in A3, I've always been curious about the symbolic language of wingdings, and was wondering if the font type could be used for any kind of communication/messaging. 
Odd Blog V2 is that curiosity come to life with an added wordlcoud feature. This wordcloud visualizes post words by accessing the Odd Blog V2 Persistent SQLite 3 database. 
Because it uses the site's information, any words can be added to the wordlcoud by posting! (Additional context below).
The app is meant to be used as a wingdings communication platform, with all text being translatable via the top-left language switch.

Similar to A3's iteration, Odd Blog uses a Google OAuth login system for post posting and reviewing posted messages. (Users can both create new posts, as well as delete their own old posts. )
  
  **(Sample Credentials for Testers)**:
  
  username: a32019Tester@gmail.com 
  
  password: giveaplease
  
In creating this site, I used the bootstrap CSS framework and w3 CSS stylesheets, in addition to adding my own styling in classes to change both the positioning and 
displayed language/font of elements. The wordcloud is generated as a d3 visualiztion using database JSON data. 

## D3 Wordcloud (accessed via the 'cloudify' button)
This wordcloud was generated by using D3 svg visualizations. The wordcloud can be maniuplated mulitple ways:
 - **Adding to the Wordcloud:** Users can add to the wordcloud by posting on the blog!
 - **Changing to/from Wingdings:** The top-left toggle switch changes the symbols on both the wordcloud, and the site at large! 
     Because wingding's innate font size is so diverse, the wingding wordclouds can make some wacky designs! 
 - **Filtering Posters:** You're able to select whose posts you'd like to include using a dropdown selector.
 - **Changing Color Palette:** The user can change what standard d3 color category they'd like to use in showing the words. These palettes are scaled ordinal arrays of colors used in many, many d3 visualizaions.  
 - **Changing Cycle Speed:** Because the word cloud is animated, and cycling through mulitple visualizations, 
     the speed at which new clouds are made can be altered.
 - **Changing Word Count (Num Words):** The number of words that appear in the cloud can be altered (however the cloud can only show as many words as are available among the blog posts).
 - **Save Image**: Clicking this button will save an image of the current wordcloud, downloading it to the browser's specified download location. 
 
 This information can also be found via the "Help (?)" button.
 
 In addition, the compression and helmet middlewares are implemented
 
 Two modules (startup.js and google.js) were used for local client-side javascript. 
 
The main challenge I faced while making this project was the fact that certain browsers (such as FireFox) do not support any symbolistic non-unicode font styles/langues 
in their browser standards. This means that on those browsers all text is displayed as english, with the translator switch only changing the font styling to default. 

Due to the fact that much of my part-time work is with PHP, I decided to use PHPStorm's JSLint Linter for checking my client-side javascript files. 
This helped with resolving scoping issues, and fixing quote semantics. 

## Although achievements cannot be credited if used from previous assignments, the following achievements remain implemented. 
- **A3 Achievement**: I used OAuth authentication via the Google strategy to allow users to log in with their google accounts.
- **A3 Achievement**: Implemented a search bar which searches all posts from the database, showing only posts with the matching text.
- **A3 Achievement**: Implemented a toggle switch which translates all text (as well as typed text) to either Wingdings or english.
- **A3 Achievement**: Added a warning alert to FireFox users specifying that FireFox does not support symbolic, non-unicode characters.
- **A3 Achievement**: Manipulated and set custom favicon and allowed for cors-accessible resource-acquisition.

## New Achievements (A4)
- **Tech Achievement 1**: Used the SVG/PNG conversion lobrary for saving images.
- **Tech Achievement 2**: Parsed JSON data from server database into D3 selectors.
- **Tech Achievement 3**: Used Bootstrap input elements (sliders, buttonds and selectors) for controlling the visualization.

-------------------------------------

- **Design Achievement 1**: Propogated the d3 scaling ordinance colorscales accross all shown words in the wordcloud.
- **Design Achievement 2**: Wordcloud and control positions adjust based on screen size.